---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

In this section you will find a brief description of the main terms used in the
platform. Please make sure you learn this glossary to fully understand our
documentation.

## Application metric

Is a measure exposed by an application that can be used for post-paid billing
purposes (e.g. number of users, number of documents).

Go to [application metrics section](onboarding.md#application-metrics).

## Balance Report

A statement that is periodically provided to the vendor, containing a summary of
all the revenues generated by the sales of his applications in a certain period
of time (greater than the Billing Period). The revenues corresponds to the total
amount of the applications licenses sold plus the _pay-per-use application
metrics_ revenues, minus the **ClouDesire fee**.

## Billing period

How often a new invoice is issued for a particular plan bought by a customer
(e.g. each two months)

## Bundle

A composition of two or more products that can be sold as a single product.

## Configuration Parameter

A choice that is presented to the end-user during the checkout process.

## Customer

A user that buys products in the Cloudesire Marketplace.

## Distributor

An user role can manage catalogs of products resold by resellers.

## Extra Resources

A configurable, usually optional characteristic of a product that has its own
configurable pricing (e.g. a 10-days pack of Technical Support, some hardware
components, etc), that can be prepaid or postpaid if tied to an application
metric.

Go to [Extra Resources section](onboarding-extra-resources.md).

## Invoice

During the subscription lifetime, Cloudesire issues a certain number of invoices
to the customers, depending on the Billing Period (e.g. every month, every 3
months, etc.). The Billing Period can be defined by the vendor for each
application version.

## Module

A composition of Packages linked to a Virtual Machine Configuration that is
provisioned for a particular Product Plan.

## Order

When a customer buys an application, Cloudesire creates an _order_ that contains
the following information: duration (e.g. 1 year, 6 months, etc.), nominee (the
customer name), purchased application name, order type (can be _normal_,
_trial_, _sandbox_, _upgrade_, _renewal_), total amount.

## Package

Represent a software component that can be used in a [Docker
application](docker.md) (e.g. a postgres:9.3 Docker container).

## Proceed

The statistical report of the vendor, distributor, reseller incomes.

## Product

A web-based (or MS Windows desktop) software product, or a syndicated
application, or a service which can be sold in the marketplace.

## Product plan

For each product, the vendor can define one or more _plans_ (e.g. silver, gold,
platinum, etc.). Each plan can have a specific **recurrent license** and/or a
one-off **setup price** or can be offered for free.

## Reseller

An user that can resell product on its own marketplace.

## Sandbox

A particular order type used to test the provisioning process of a product.

## Subscription

Each order, Cloudesire creates a _subscription_ that has a specific lifetime,
depending on the order duration. In the case of renewal of a subscription, a new
order is created ("renewal order").

## Vendor

A user that offers his applications in the Cloudesire Marketplace.

## Virtual Machine Configuration

The minimum cloud resources required to operate a Docker application managed by
the platform.
