---
id: pricing-models
title: SaaS pricing models explained
sidebar_label: Pricing Models
---

In this section we will focus on pricing models. The Pricing Model configuration
section is one of the most important aspects of product configuration. Since it
directly influences your product sales, it is important to understand which the
most common pricing models available on the platform.

You can deeply customize the pricing model for your product in Cloudesire (for
example, you can add [extra resources](onboarding-extra-resources.md) to your
product), but the choice of the right pricing model is not always easy. That's
why in the following paragraphs you will find an introduction to the most used
pricing models in SaaS businesses.

## Available pricing models

There are many different basic pricing models that you can implement in
Cloudesire. To define a pricing model, you need at least one product into your
catalog. Select the product, then "_Edit_" and go to the "_Plans_" tab. You can
edit or add new plans to your product.

### Freemium model

The Freemium model is a good way to find new customers for your application.
With this model, you allow customers to use your application with basic features
for free and switch to premium features in paid plans.

The challenging aspect is that you need to find ways to push customers to switch
to premium versions: this means that you need to define the pricing model with
at least two product versions and understand which features of your product
could push users to pay. For example, premium version could include more users,
more credits, more storage or more services than the free version: you need to
understand which is the right hook.

Examples of SaaS business using this model are Hootsuite and Dropbox.

![Pricing Models: freemium](/img/docs/freemium-model.png)

### Pay-as-you-go model

Pay as you go model means that your users pay only for what they use, so it's a
good choice if you want to reduce the entry barrier for customers. This offers
flexibility to customers, but your product needs to have an effective metering
system. Also, you need to understand how to segment your offer. Usually, you
lower the price of items for larger volumes, so that users are pushed to buy
more items to save money.

iStock is an example of Pay as you go pricing model

![Pricing Models: pay as you go](/img/docs/pay-as-you-go-model.png)

### Pay-per-use model

Pay-per-user model means that your customers move up and down the tier
automatically, so the cost scales according to how they use the product. For
example, you pay 30$/month up to 10 users and 50$/month up to 15 users. The
challenging aspect of this model is that you do not have a constant flow of
revenues, they can move up and down and it's not predictable.

Slack is an example of a SaaS business that follows this model.
![Pricing Models: pay per user model](/img/docs/pay-per-user-model.png)

### Fixed-Pricing model

The Fixed Pricing model is a good way to offer different versions of your
product to different targets and generate consistent revenues. If you have a
product that can target different customers and you can define different pricing
tiers, you could benefit from the fixed pricing model.

For example, you could create a silver version for freelance professionals, a
gold version for small companies and a platinum version for large companies.

Hubspot is a successful example of business that offers a fixed pricing model.

![Pricing Models: fixed price model](/img/docs/fixed-price-model.png)

### Features-Based model

Feature Based model means that you create different pricing tiers based on
features. The challenging aspect of this model is that you need to identify
which features add to each tier, so that customers are willing to pay up to get
them.

Salesforce is an example of a business that offers a feature based model.

![Pricing models: Feature Based model](/img/docs/feature-based-model.png)
